import {Head, Notes} from 'mdx-deck'

export {theme} from './theme'

<Head>
    <title>Understanding JAMstack with REAL use-case</title>
</Head>

# Understanding JAMstack with REAL use-case

---

# Benefits?

Understanding how to use static sites generators(SSG) to create powerful apps
that will change the future by <b> understanding the approach others have used
via the case study.</b>

---

## Our Case Study

-   [Freecodecamp](https://www.freecodecamp.org/)
-   [Gatsby Swag Store](https://store.gatsbyjs.org/)

---

![Freecodecamp](/fcc.png)

---

# Freecodecamp

[Freecodecamp](https://www.freecodecamp.org/) is a non-profit organization that
helps millions of people learn to code every month, and we're doing this using a
single API server.

The rest of the platform is handled by CDNs and other glorious services.

---

## Freecodecamp Architecture

![Freecodecamp Architecture](https://res.cloudinary.com/practicaldev/image/fetch/s--jfZ2uyDW--/c_limit%2Cf_auto%2Cfl_progressive%2Cq_auto%2Cw_880/https://thepracticaldev.s3.amazonaws.com/i/b5xt0zbpinkqamc2gdqv.png)

---

Step #1: An open source contributor opens a pull request, changing one of
freeCodeCamp.org's 6,000+ interactive coding challenges and reference articles -
all of which are stored as easy-to-edit markdown files.

Step #2: Our continuous integration tool confirms that the build passes and Git
confirms there aren't any merge conflicts.

Step #3: An open source maintainer QA's and merges the pull request on GitHub.

---

Step #4: Gatsby - a static site builder - turns these 6,000+ markdown files into
a single-page React app.

Step #5: Netlify pushes the newly-built app to their CDN endpoints in data
centers around the world.

Step #6: A person who wants to practice their coding visits
https://www.freecodecamp.org.

Step #7: Their browser pulls down the files from the nearest Netlify CDN
endpoint and renders the Gatsby app.

---

Step #8: Auth0 checks to see whether they are logged into freeCodeCamp.org. If
they are, it gives them read-write access to our public API - a Node.js /
Loopback server.

Step #9: The API server then reads and writes data from our MongoDB cluster
hosted on mLab.

Step #10: The browser can now fetch the user's complete freeCodeCamp profile and
progress. When they complete a coding challenge, their browser can write data
back to their profile.

NB:
[To read more about this step](https://dev.to/ossia/how-freecodecamporg-uses-the-jamstack--a-single-api-server-to-help-millions-of-people-learn-to-code-every-month-4d5g)
or watch
[Quincy Larson's talk during the first JAMstack conf](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e5H7CI3yqPY)

---

## Let's Analyze The Architecture

Majority of the processes in the Freecodecamp Architecture was going to be
handled in the browser.Rendering the markdown file from github.They must be able
to track the changes and who made the change.Test cases must run in browser.Keep
each user's progress on the platform.

---

When a user completes a challenge, the API endpoint will be communicated to for
read and write to save whatever the user has done and keep track on each
challenges the user completed in the curriculum.

NB: they understood the need and perculiarity of their process

---

# Gatsby Swag Store

[Gatsby Swag Store](https://store.gatsbyjs.org/) is an automated system that
would identify, manage, and ship swag to Gatsby Maintainers using SaaS like
GitHub, Peril, GitHub App Dashboard, MailChimp, Shopify and Threadbird

---

# Consideration from the Team that worked on the Project

-   They found out their limitations and Strength

-   Deciding on how to turn Limitation to Strength

-   Scalability was key

-   Process must be repeatable with less human input

-   A Process framework was designed

---

![Gatsby Process](/Swag-Process.png)

---

## Let's take a deeper look at the Process Framework

### GitHub

#### TLDR: Peril

Peril is a hosted instance of Danger. So instead of running on CI, it will run
on a server somewhere and can respond instantly to webhooks. This gives Danger
the ability to respond instantly to PR changes, and to run on more than just
PRs. It was deployed to check if the person assessing the store is a contributor
or maintainer.

---

## GitHub App Dashboard

It is a service that allows you to build an App using existing Github data to
give access to your own service. It was used by the swag store to add a coupon
pulled from shopiify when a collaborator agrees to become a maintainer and share
email address

## MailChimp

use the mailchimp API to send automated emails

---

## Shopify

Handles the discount code and product you decide to add to your cart

## Threadbird

Shopify directs to this service for customer support, it receives purchase info
from shopify, fulfil and ship order.

---

## What is all this about still?

> I am not sure I have interest in all this Jargon this guy is talking about.

---

## Wait for It?

The built an ecommerce website with all the modern sweetness. The Largest
platform to learn coding uses this architecture.

All built with

![JAMstack](https://snipcart.com/media/204206/jamstack.png)

---

To create your presentation

<Notes>Create speaker notes with the Notes component</Notes>

---

<https://github.com/jxnblk/mdx-deck>
